# Portfolio Optimization: Comparing Covariance Denoising Methods to Basic Method

## Folder Structure

```
📦 
├─ .DS_Store
├─ README.md
├─ data
│  └─ clean_full_bbo_data.parquet
├─ data_analysis.ipynb
├─ get_smaller_dataset.ipynb
├─ load_data.py
├─ main.ipynb
├─ requirements.txt
└─ utils.py

```




## [Project Setup](#setup)
Install required packages with :
`pip install -r requirements.txt`

Set up a data folder as following : 
- `mkdir -p data`
  
Subsequently, download datafrom the [drive](https://drive.switch.ch/index.php/s/0X3Je6DauQRzD2r) provided by the Professor. The data used is called `sp100_2004-8`, which contains data from 2004 to 2008. After downloading the data, store the folder `sp100_2004-8` inside `data` as can be observed above in [Project Setup](#setup).
Then, download from [this drive](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1SrcHEkzGBf8P73Pl8ty7U_4VPUHuJvfm/view?usp=sharing) the file `raw_full_bbo_data.parquet` and store it into the folder `data` you have created.

## Structure
This project explores how denoising the covariance matrix can impact the variance of the optimal portfolio, computed using the Markowitz formula.

The project workflow is as follows:
1. **Main Analysis**:  
   The analysis is performed in [main.ipynb](https://github.com/valee99/FIN-525-Project/blob/main/main.ipynb), using the dataset `clean_full_bbo_data.parquet`.

2. **Dataset Preparation**:  
   1. The dataset `clean_full_bbo_data.parquet` is generated by running [get_smaller_dataset.ipynb](https://github.com/valee99/FIN-525-Project/blob/main/get_smaller_dataset.ipynb) on the file `raw_full_bbo_data.parquet`.
   2. The file `raw_full_bbo_data.parquet` is derived from the SP100 dataset and can be obtained in two ways:
      - **Download** it using the second drive link provided above.  
      - **Generate it directly** by running [load_data.py](https://github.com/valee99/FIN-525-Project/blob/main/load_data.py).

## Dataset Overview

1. **Input**: SP100 dataset.  
2. **Intermediate Files**:  
   1. `raw_full_bbo_data.parquet`: Preprocessed dataset.  
   2. `clean_full_bbo_data.parquet`: Final dataset used for analysis.

## Team Components
For any question and/or curiosity, feel free to reach
* [Valentin Aolaritei](mailto:valentin.aolaritei@epfl.ch)
* [Alberto De Laurentis](mailto:alberto.delaurentis@epfl.ch)
* [Giorgio Milani](mailto:giorgio.milani@epfl.ch)
